As you aware, My name is Himanshu Jain. i am working as a Senior QA engineer in Helm analytics pvt ltd Noid from last 5 year. before joing this organiztion, i worked for 
Aithent technology gurgaon for almost 5 year. so overall i am having 12 year experience to provide qa service in insurance,investment banking,legal firm,BI and DWH application.
i worked in complete life cycle of two projuct just from the begin of discover phase. 
I would like to categerise my complete carrear in four differenct vertical

1. DB 2.function testing and team buildup and managment 3. non function testing 4. functional automation
throughout in the carrear i worked for db migration and datawarehousing testing as most of the project data centric projects. this is alwayst one of the strong zone
function testing- i included in testcase,test plan creation/review and mentoring the team of 2-3 persons while addressing the various conflict issue. i also generate differenct
matrices in order to provide the suggestion to manager for the improvement and modification of existing process
Non-function testing - i did the performance/load testing using the jmeter,dynatrace and PAL reports

on the function automation testing- our team take the initiave around 3 year back and doing the automation for stable part of application. 
we are using cucumber framwork using the POM. we are using selenium bind with java language.

i am very confortable of desiging the framework from the strech and as well work on existing framwork.very good exposure of page obect model in respest of selenium.
from last 3 year, i am using selenium webdriver. currently working on webdriver version 3.14.1. we are using java as langauge
i have very good hands on experience on tdd framework like junit/cucumber. have a experiance on Bdd tool like cucumber
also worked on builid management tool like maven and has some fair idea of Gite and jenkin
very comfortable to write desiging the component of framework.

as a qa engineer,i have around 5 year with this company. also perform functional testing as and when required


apart from this i have fair idea of most recent trends like agile, devops,git and jenkins tool operation.

currently i am working on terminus application, which is BI tools for legal firm and enable the managet to identify the root cause of deviation and forcast 
the future firm bottom line and top line. this is really have some feature like different type of charting, curreny conversion,drill down,creating the dashboard
favourite,publish in community and many more.
as a senior core memeber, i m responsible to verify the data from various heterogenous system and load them in stagging.
i also responsible to further verify the data when its move to the data ware house after different type of transformation.
i am also mentoring two junior resoure by scheduling their work and providing the assistance to them. 


